<!-- Code generated by gomarkdoc. DO NOT EDIT -->

# sjson

```go
import "github.com/fufuok/utils/xjson/sjson"
```

Package sjson provides setting json values.

## Index

- [func Delete(json, path string) (string, error)](<#func-delete>)
- [func DeleteBytes(json []byte, path string) ([]byte, error)](<#func-deletebytes>)
- [func Set(json, path string, value interface{}) (string, error)](<#func-set>)
- [func SetBytes(json []byte, path string, value interface{}) ([]byte, error)](<#func-setbytes>)
- [func SetBytesOptions(json []byte, path string, value interface{}, opts *Options) ([]byte, error)](<#func-setbytesoptions>)
- [func SetOptions(json, path string, value interface{}, opts *Options) (string, error)](<#func-setoptions>)
- [func SetRaw(json, path, value string) (string, error)](<#func-setraw>)
- [func SetRawBytes(json []byte, path string, value []byte) ([]byte, error)](<#func-setrawbytes>)
- [func SetRawBytesOptions(json []byte, path string, value []byte, opts *Options) ([]byte, error)](<#func-setrawbytesoptions>)
- [func SetRawOptions(json, path, value string, opts *Options) (string, error)](<#func-setrawoptions>)
- [type Options](<#type-options>)


## func Delete

```go
func Delete(json, path string) (string, error)
```

Delete deletes a value from json for the specified path.

## func DeleteBytes

```go
func DeleteBytes(json []byte, path string) ([]byte, error)
```

DeleteBytes deletes a value from json for the specified path.

## func Set

```go
func Set(json, path string, value interface{}) (string, error)
```

Set sets a json value for the specified path. A path is in dot syntax, such as "name.last" or "age". This function expects that the json is well\-formed, and does not validate. Invalid json will not panic, but it may return back unexpected results. An error is returned if the path is not valid.

A path is a series of keys separated by a dot.

\{ "name": \{"first": "Tom", "last": "Anderson"\}, "age":37, "children": \["Sara","Alex","Jack"\], "friends": \[ \{"first": "James", "last": "Murphy"\}, \{"first": "Roger", "last": "Craig"\} \] \} "name.last"          \>\> "Anderson" "age"                \>\> 37 "children.1"         \>\> "Alex"

## func SetBytes

```go
func SetBytes(json []byte, path string, value interface{}) ([]byte, error)
```

SetBytes sets a json value for the specified path. If working with bytes, this method preferred over Set\(string\(data\), path, value\)

## func SetBytesOptions

```go
func SetBytesOptions(json []byte, path string, value interface{}, opts *Options) ([]byte, error)
```

SetBytesOptions sets a json value for the specified path with options. If working with bytes, this method preferred over SetOptions\(string\(data\), path, value\)

## func SetOptions

```go
func SetOptions(json, path string, value interface{}, opts *Options) (string, error)
```

SetOptions sets a json value for the specified path with options. A path is in dot syntax, such as "name.last" or "age". This function expects that the json is well\-formed, and does not validate. Invalid json will not panic, but it may return back unexpected results. An error is returned if the path is not valid.

## func SetRaw

```go
func SetRaw(json, path, value string) (string, error)
```

SetRaw sets a raw json value for the specified path. This function works the same as Set except that the value is set as a raw block of json. This allows for setting premarshalled json objects.

## func SetRawBytes

```go
func SetRawBytes(json []byte, path string, value []byte) ([]byte, error)
```

SetRawBytes sets a raw json value for the specified path. If working with bytes, this method preferred over SetRaw\(string\(data\), path, value\)

## func SetRawBytesOptions

```go
func SetRawBytesOptions(json []byte, path string, value []byte, opts *Options) ([]byte, error)
```

SetRawBytesOptions sets a raw json value for the specified path with options. If working with bytes, this method preferred over SetRawOptions\(string\(data\), path, value, opts\)

## func SetRawOptions

```go
func SetRawOptions(json, path, value string, opts *Options) (string, error)
```

SetRawOptions sets a raw json value for the specified path with options. This furnction works the same as SetOptions except that the value is set as a raw block of json. This allows for setting premarshalled json objects.

## type Options

Options represents additional options for the Set and Delete functions.

```go
type Options struct {
    // Optimistic is a hint that the value likely exists which
    // allows for the sjson to perform a fast-track search and replace.
    Optimistic bool
    // ReplaceInPlace is a hint to replace the input json rather than
    // allocate a new json byte slice. When this field is specified
    // the input json will not longer be valid and it should not be used
    // In the case when the destination slice doesn't have enough free
    // bytes to replace the data in place, a new bytes slice will be
    // created under the hood.
    // The Optimistic flag must be set to true and the input must be a
    // byte slice in order to use this field.
    ReplaceInPlace bool
}
```



Generated by [gomarkdoc](<https://github.com/princjef/gomarkdoc>)
